---
title: On the predictability of sandbar migration rates
output:
  md_document:
    variant: gfm
    preserve_yaml: TRUE
    pandoc_args: 
      - "--wrap=preserve"
knit: (function(inputFile, encoding) {
  rmarkdown::render(inputFile, encoding = encoding, output_dir = "../_posts") })
date: 2019-08-11
permalink: /posts/2019/08/YCSECA
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
toc: true

---
#### Presented at 6th Young Coastal Scientists and Engineers Conference – Americas, Corvallis, OR
Four Beach transect at Duck, North Carolina (two transects in the Northern end and two transects in the Southern end) are analyzed from 1995 till 2018. Observed cross-shore sandbar migration rates are fitted as a function of the sediment transport capacity at the peak of the sandbar. The sediment transport capacity parameter is calculated using a Bailard type energetics approach, where the suspended sediment transport is calculated by considering the 4th power of the velocity at the peak of the sandbar. The velocity over the sandbar is composed of the wave orbital velocities and mean currents. The found parameter can be used as a reasonable proxy to identify the sandbar migration rate and direction.  



<!--more-->

Three different numerical models will be used during my PhD to assess the predictive capability of sand bar migration for a given wave climate. The models vary from 1D phase- and depth-averaged (XBeach), quasi 2DV phase-averaged (XBeach quasi 2DV) and 3D phase resolving (Mike 3 WAVE-MORPH). The physical processes included in each model are different. The comparison will allow us to understand which processes should be retained in order to accurately model sand bar migration.

